## What is CoderDojo?

CoderDojo is an open source, volunteer led movement orientated around
running free not-for-profit coding clubs and regular sessions for young
people aged 7-17. CoderDojo puts an emphasis on self motivated learning
through project work, peer to peer mentoring and the creation of
socially innovative projects. To go to the CoderDojo website please
click [here.](http://coderdojo.com/)

## What is a Dojo?

At Dojos, young people between 5 and 17 learn how to code, develop
websites, apps, programs, games and more. Dojos are set up, run by, and
taught at, by volunteers. In addition to learning to code, members meet
like minded people, present what theyâ€™ve been working on and engage with
their peers. CoderDojo makes development and learning to code a fun,
sociable, kick ass experience. CoderDojo also puts a strong emphasis on
open source and free software, and has a strong network of members and
volunteers globally, there are currently over 400 Dojos in 43 countries.

## What is taught in Dojos?

What is taught at Dojos in normally dependant on the mentors who are
there and what their skills are combined with the interests of the young
people. The focus is on guiding the young people with the basics and
then facilitating them in creating their own projects.

We recommend starting with Scratch. It is used a lot in Dojos,
especially with beginners, and is a programming language that was
developed specifically to help young people learn programming. You can
see Scratch here: <http://scratch.mit.edu/>

The website also contains lots of tutorials and sample projects and you
can find much more on YouTube. Most Dojos usually run a beginners
Scratch session at first and then develop the curriculum based on the
skills of the mentors and the prefered projects of the young people
attending to HTML, CSS, Python etc.

You can see more projects and sample lessons create by CoderDojo
organisers from all over the world
[here](Overview_of_Learning_Resources.md).

## How to set up a Dojo

First please register your interest as a new Champion
[here.](https://docs.google.com/a/hwf.io/forms/d/1feHIF22k9pJjPSiYVTubWFWNkdMlVTW4Z7OKBUlhhFs/edit)

The main steps towards organising a Dojo are as follows:

  - **Gather your Team** - Find interested local technical volunteers to
    mentor, find parents who can help out and volunteer when they bring
    their children etc. You do not need to have a big team but it is
    always better to have support from a core team when organising a
    Dojo. You can then have planning meetings with your team in advance
    of setting up your Dojo.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Find your Venue** - Dojo's cannot be hosted in private residences,
    they must be in a public space such as a library, business,
    canteens, schools or community centres. We recommend that the young
    people attending bring their own laptops so the venue should have,
    at least, plug sockets for laptops, internet access and tables and
    chairs for the attendees.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Set a Date and Plan** - Pick a date to get started, have a meeting
    with your team to plan what content you are going to cover with your
    mentors and advertise your Dojo so that you have some kids to come
    along\! Most Dojos run once a week/twice a month etc. We recommend
    deciding on a regular time and date for your Dojo to ensure
    consistency. We recommend setting up an email address and Twitter
    account for your Dojo to deal with queries and promote your Dojo.

<!-- end list -->

  - G**et your Dojo verified on Zen** - Once you have completed the
    above steps and are ready to get started you need to register, login
    and create a listing for your Dojo on our database Zen,
    <http://zen.coderdojo.com> To create a listing for your Dojo on Zen
    you will need to sign the CoderDojo Charter of Ethics. You can see
    the Charter
    [here.](CoderDojo_Charter_of_Ethics.md)

We recommend contacting Dojos in your area that are currently active,
local and national, and if possible visiting them while a CoderDojo
session is in action or having a chat with their organiser. You can
search for your nearest Dojos here: <http://zen.coderdojo.com/>

## CoderDojo Press Release

CoderDojo is an open source, volunteer led movement orientated around
running free coding clubs (Dojos) for young people between 7 - 17 years
old. At a Dojo, young people learn how to code, develop websites, apps,
programs, games and much more. Dojos are set up, run and led by
volunteers. Dojos make development and learning to code a fun, sociable
and awesome experience\!

The first CoderDojo took place in Cork after it was founded by then 18
year-old coder James Whelton and entrepreneur Bill Liao. Since then, the
CoderDojo movement has grown to become a global phenomenon. On any given
month, between 10,000 and 20,000 young people are mentored by volunteers
to code in more than 429 Dojos in 44 countries around the world (as of
April 2014). Today there are Dojos in locations such as Romania,
Manchester, San Francisco, Tokyo, Africa, Hawaii and many more\!

CoderDojo is supported by the CoderDojo Foundation [(formerly the Hello
World
Foundation)](http://helloworldfoundation.com/introducing-the-coderdojo-foundation-new-ceo-mary-moloney/),
a charitable organisation set up by CoderDojo co-founder James Whelton
to scale and support the movement on a global level. To join your local
CoderDojo, you can find your nearest one from CoderDojo Zen. If there is
not a CoderDojo near you, would you be interested in setting one up? For
further information visit www.coderdojo.com and www.hwf.io. Twitter:
@CoderDojo

## Videos about CoderDojo

[CoderDojo, One Rule: Be
Cool\!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k5ciSFjEN1c)

[CoderDojo in 90 Seconds](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_gcHGa8J1E)

[Coding the Future, The Story of CoderDojo so
Far](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_bjboMjNr9Q)

[Playlist of videos about
CoderDojo](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLQBFqko3_sHXH5h-SvTp36QhgFNuNfGS2)
