## Summary

 How to award belts, learn here\! 

## Content

Here are some guidelines on awarding belts as a Dojo.

The belts have to have 'value' and reward achievement (not just service)
so it is important for mentors and kids that there are rules (the kids
really understand this).

**Note:** It is really important that Dojo's don't fall into competing
against each other on number of belts awarded :) Let's keep the standard
high and work with the kids to develop talent one to one rather than
become obsessed with belts and badges\!

#### Communicate Clearly to everyone in your Dojo

Take time to understand the guidance here, challenge and discuss it and
if possible attend a belt giving ceremony in a Dojo that has done it
already if possible.

The kids and parents really want to get belts but what they want more
than anything else is **fairness**. So explain to them all:

  - No one has a right to a belt - it must be earned
  - We (the whole Dojo - mentors, parents and all club members) will
    help you get there
  - We will be clear about what is required to get to the next belt
    level
  - We will give you feedback for next time if you did not make it
  - An element of Social Good is a must - (e.g. mentoring others in the
    Dojo, making a website for a charity, teach elderly people to use
    the net, etc.)
  - What the difference between a White/Yellow/Blue belt is (e.g. for
    Scatch, HTML/CSS, Python, etc.) - see below.

#### Applying for a Belt

'Applying' sounds very formal but the basic idea is that anyone once can
request to be assessed for a belt. Mentors then discuss with that person
what is needed for the next belt for them and agree between the how best
to demonstrate them. E.g. build your own website to do this or that,
build a 2 character game in Scratch with a high score table, etc..

So there are three steps to this

  - Learn Skills (badges) - these are the practical skills that are
    picked up at Dojos week in, week out
  - Put Skills into Practice - demonstrate that skills are understood
    and are being put into practice together (not just transcribed)
  - Recognition - Belts are awarded based on recognition from Mentors
    and peers

Putting this into practice what we did was:

1.  Pick a week to award belts
2.  Explain what was needed to be a yellow or blue belt
3.  Work one to one with everyone to set a challenge of interest them to
    achieve a belt
4.  Two Mentors evaluate if the challenge is achieved and is enough to
    award a belt
5.  Award the belt or provide feedback on how to take the project a bit
    further to be ready next time (see 'Making the Decision to Award a
    Belt ' below)

#### Making the Decision to Award a Belt

Agreement and Consistency is absolutely key to this so we decided to
have a not quibble unanimous decision process and importantly support
and guidance if the Dojo member is not ready.

To ensure the rules did not change with the mentor we agreed that

  - at least 2 mentors would have to agree that the Dojo member was
    ready to go for his/her belt
  - that any of the mentors involved could veto the decision
  - veto would be respected (no arguments\! :)

If someone is not ready to be considered for a higher belt they must be
given clear instruction on what they needed to work on to be ready next
time.

It is important to follow the 'Above All, Be Cool' philosophy here. It
is not cool to upset someone or make them feel a failure - so
approaching things sensitively is important but equally it is not cool
to make an award that has no real worth or meaning so a balance is
needed\!

#### White Belts

  - Attend 5 Dojos

White belts are the only belt that is awarded for attendance rather than
skill.

  - We explained the belts as 'A sign of your commitment and membership
    to the Dojo' - by attending 5 Dojo's you have been part of the
    CoderDojo story and are now a full member of the club.
  - **NO OTHER BELTS CAN BE AWARDED WITHOUT FIRST ACHIEVING A WHITE
    BELT** - no matter how good a person is we think they should also
    show commitment to the Dojo first
  - That does not exclude someone applying for a yellow/blue belt and
    being awarded a white and yellow/blue belt on the same day.
  - Keeping a strict attendance list/system - how else will you know who
    has got to 5 Dojos and deserves a white belt?

#### Yellow / Blue / All other Belts

Other belts are awarded based on skills learned (badges). As the belts
progress more complex and specific skills (badges) would be needed but
also more independent learning should be demonstrated as teh belts
progress from yellow through to blue and onwards.

##### Yellow Belt (Scratch Example)

**Yellow Belt Goal:** The goal here was to award yellow belts to all who
could build a basic game in Scratch that used most of the concepts in
Scratch at a basic level including Pen, Drawing, Loops, Variables for
scores, etc).

The 'Scratch Bet tests' document below was great for the younger kids
who then understood what basic skills they needed (and were very keen to
learn them all\!) but they also know they had to really understand it
and show off their game and answer questions on it.

  - Must first have a white belt

<!-- end list -->

  - Demonstrate a working knowledge up to Level 2 on the attached
    ![ScratchBeltTests.pdf](ScratchBeltTests.pdf
    "ScratchBeltTests.pdf").
      - Kids were asked questions 'show how you did this or that' to
        demonstrate they understood (most) items up to Level 2
  - Social Good - One element that must also be included is that a
    social good badge was achieved.
      - We agreed that mentoring other kids would suffice as social good
        at a yellow belt level.

##### Yellow Best (HTML/CSS Example)

**Yellow Belt Goal:** To be demonstrate a basic level of competency in
HTML, CSS, be able to look up tags and CSS properties and to use this to
independently put together a multi-page website.

  - Must first have a white belt

<!-- end list -->

  - To understand HTML structure
    (\<html\>\<head\>\<title\>\<body\>\<h1..\>\<p\>)
  - To understand advanced tags and attributes (\<img\>\<a\>\<ul\>)
  - To understand inline CSS
  - To independently lookup CSS properties (e.g. on w3schools.com and
    apply them)
  - To understand CSS selectors, ids and classes
  - To use external stylesheets
  - To create a menu (website navigation)
  - Social Good - One element that must also be included is that a
    social good badge was achieved.
      - We agreed that mentoring other kids would suffice as social good
        at a yellow belt level.

A yellow belt in 'Web Development' (HTML/CSS/Javascript) will be awarded
if most of the above skills (badges) are demonstrated by being able to
put together a multi-page website within a 2 hour period.

Note: Blue belt in 'Web Development' would include understanding more
complex CSS (block/inline, grid systems, etc), HTML5 Forms and
JavaScript / JQuery).
