It is recommended that [Verified
Volunteers](http://www.verifiedvolunteers.com/) are used for providing
background checking for US CoderDojo volunteers.

![Verified\_volunteers\_logo.png](../files/img/Verified_volunteers_logo.png
"Verified_volunteers_logo.png")

## Why Verified Volunteers?

Verified Volunteers delivers best-in-class, accurate, and fast volunteer
background screening that's tailored to the needs and budgets of
nonprofits, churches and other service organizations.

This partnership developed after a couple of US Dojos had great success
screening their volunteers through Verified Volunteers and recommended
that the CoderDojo Foundation form a partnership. You can see the
partnership announcement
[here\>\>\>](../files/CoderDojo_Foundation_Partnership_Announcement_%28PDF%29.pdf)

**Discounted rates** are available for CoderDojo volunteers in the US,
you can find out information on pricing and the discounts afforded to
CoderDojo volunteers
[here\>\>](../files/VV_Proposal-CoderDojo.pdf).
You can find out more information about the process by contacting
Braden, Senior Account Executive - West, at Verified Volunteers at
braden@verifiedvolunteers.com.

If you wish to apply for your Dojo to have it's volunteers screened
through Verified Volunteers please contact Braden at Verified Volunteers
directly.

'''Braden Beisse - Senior Account Executive

(503) 349-2503

braden@verifiedvolunteers.com

[Verified Volunteers Website](http://www.verifiedvolunteers.com/)'''

## Case Study - CoderDojo McDonagh and Verified Volunteers

"The Verified Volunteers background check service has been integral to
the success of CoderDojo McDonough. Before Verified Volunteers, our
non-automated background check process was a roadblock that made it
difficult to onboard new mentors. As soon as we released the Verified
Volunteers background check system at our dojo we had several mentors
signup immediately who had difficulty with our previous background check
process. The background check process provided by Verified Volunteers
has streamlined mentor signup for both mentors and administrators at
CoderDojo McDonough."

William Metz Champion at CoderDojo McDonough Georgia, USA

## Funding for US Background Checking

The CoderDojo Foundation is currently seeking funding to specifically
cover volunteer screening in the US through Verified Volunteers but in
the meantime you can see
[here\>\>\>](Organising_a_Dojo#Fundraising.md)
for other methods of fundraising for your Dojo.

## Webinars

Verified Volunteers will be hosting free Webinars on best practice for
background checking volunteers on April 28th at 1pm and April 30th at
10am, both PST. If you would like to be involved please contact Braden
at the details above.
