The CoderDojo community committee is a semi structured group of active
CoderDojo community members whose purpose is to guide and advise the
[CoderDojo Foundation](http://helloworldfoundation.com/about/) on
certain key decisions. The Committee acts as an ear on the ground within
the community and gives information about the needs, challenges and
operations of the CoderDojo community in certain regions. They also
engage in discussion on proposed resource development and assist with
policy development relating the CoderDojo community.

## What areas will the Community Committee assist on?

CoderDojo Foundation wants the community to have as much input as
possible, which is why the Committee is included in discussions relating
to major strategic decisions which have a direct impact on the
community.

A good example of this is the [CoderDojo Charter of
Ethics](CoderDojo_Charter_of_Ethics.md): this was developed as a
basic set of terms & conditions for all Dojos to agree to when
registering their dojo on [Zen](Zen.md). The CoderDojo
Foundation wrote an initial draft of the charter and then went to the
community for feedback and advice. Based on discussions with the group
the Charter was amended and finally approved. It now exists on Zen and
all new dojos must agree to it when registering on the site.

## Committee Composition

Currently the only set requirement in place is that all Committee
members are active CoderDojo community members; this means that they are
currently actively involved in an up and running Dojo/number of Dojos.
Only one community member from a region nominated themselves to be on
the Committee, this was done so that the Committee is a fair
representative of the global CoderDojo community. If the Committee
begins to grow to a size too large to be manageable and for positive and
constructive discussion to take place, then it will be the
responsibility of the Committee to devise a procedure for selecting or
rotating members.

## Community Committee Members

| Name                         | Dojo                       | Country |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------- | ------- |
| Carmelo                      | CoderDojo Bologna          | IT      |
| Craig                        | CoderDojo Glasgow          | UK      |
| Dave                         | CoderDojo Iowa             | US      |
| Francis                      | CoderDojo Dun Laoghaire    | IE      |
| Greg                         | CoderDojo Seattle          | US      |
| Josh and Frank               | CoderDojo Washington DC    | US      |
| Michael                      | CoderDojo Galway & Athenry | IE      |
| Patrick                      | CoderDojo Istanbul         | TR      |
| Paul                         | CoderDojo Leiden           | NL      |
| Radu                         | CoderDojo Timisoara        | RO      |
| Rob                          | CoderDojo Wilmslow         | UK      |
| Shara                        | CoderDojo LA               | US      |
| John                         | CoderDojo Carrickmacross   | IE      |
| Yohei                        | CoderDojo Japan            | JP      |
| Martine, Jerry and/or Sophie | CoderDojo Belgium          | BE      |

## Provisional Terms & Conditions

**These are the provisional structure, terms and conditions:**

There will be four 1 hour calls per year at or around the following
months: **March, May, August, and November**.

  - Each call will have a theme/item and set agenda for discussion set
    by CoderDojo Foundation based on current projects.
  - All members will be asked to submit any questions two weeks prior to
    the call, if a question/topic is suggested by more than one member
    it will be included on the agenda.
  - All Committee members will be required to familiarise themselves
    with the agenda to ensure that each member is given an opportunity
    to speak on each topic.
  - Each meeting will be facilitated by a CoderDojo Foundation staff
    member who will ensure the meeting follows the agenda.
  - Notes will be taken and posted to the CoderDojo organisers Google
    Group within two weeks of the call.
  - CoderDojo Foundation will communicate with the committee members
    when necessary via email/Google group/forum as necessary
  - Committee members will be expected to raise any concerns arising in
    their regions, enabling CoderDojo Foundation to be proactive in
    resolving them.
  - Committee members should be motivated solely by the aim of
    benefiting the CoderDojo community and any decisions made in regard
    to this should not be affected by members involvement with any
    outside organisations.
  - These meetings are for constructive discussion with the aim of
    benefiting the global CoderDojo community. Unless it has become an
    issue relevant to the entire community and is added as a topic for
    discussion, any individual/local grievances with the CoderDojo
    Foundation are not to be discussed in this setting but feel free to
    contact us
directly.

### [Next Community Committee Call](http://helloworldfoundation.com/tag/community-committee/)
