With our ever growing community of over 850 dojos in 63 (as of Jan 2016)
countries we realised the need to stay connected. It is possible to
request a USA Community Call and European Community Call to connect
organisers from around the globe to chat about issues that effect their
Dojos and will shortly be introducing an Australian/Asian Community
Call.

To sign up for the next Community Call please contact info@coderdojo.com

You can see other Community Supports we have in place
[here.](Community_Support.md)

## Questions To Be Covered

Many dojos have questions before starting, while looking to expand and
how to keep things running. Here are the essential questions broken down
into topics we'd like to discuss:

  - Dojo Administration
  - PR, marketing & Branding Best Practices
  - Curriculum & Teaching
  - Mentor Recruitment & Retention
  - Funding & Scaling
  - Awards and Recognition

The calls will be moderated to insure that everyone gets a word in, and
that concerns are addressed and move into action.

As these are community calls we need both mentors with questions and
mentors who have some examples of how they do it on the calls so please
join call to help other even if you don't need the help yourself.

We encourage people to ask questions beforehand in the CoderDojo
Organiserâ€™s group, via email to info@coderdojo.com and continue
discussion via Twitter.

## Booking

We would like you to book your place in advance both so we can send you
information in advance and so that we know that we have a good
representation of the community on the call. Booking will close 4 hours
before each call.

Please see the calendar
**[here](https://coderdojo.com/community-support)** and view the event
description of the next community call in your area to find out how to
book.

## How To Join

You will be sent details of how to join the call once you have signed up
for the call. To sign up for the next Community Call please see
[here.](http://coderdojo.com/resources/community-calls)

To see information on how to connect to the call please see
[here.](http://coderdojo.com/news/2013/12/12/accessing-voice-community-calls)

## FAQ

**Do I need to be in the specific timezone to participate in a call?**
No, you can participate in whichever call is most convenient for you.
Calls will have the same agenda/topic for the week so you can drop into
either without missing anything.

**How will the calls be held?**

Toll-free international dial-in numbers will be provided using Join.me.

**Will calls be recorded?**

Yes, calls will be recorded and available for listening, and meeting
minutes will be kept for reference. To find out more and to sign up for
the next Community Call please see
[here.](http://coderdojo.com/resources/community-calls)
