## Summary

 This page contains Information on Regionalisation / Dojo
Groups. This is when a number of different Dojos come together to form a
'Group' of Dojos. These groups represent a region, defined on a case by
case basis. Many represent entire countries such as CoderDojo Belgium,
while others represent a region within a country such as CoderDojo
Western Australia. Groups can take an informal or formal structure.
Informal varies on the region but is normally an Association of members.
While formal means a structured entity that sets up as a charity under
the relevant legislation in their region. 

## Content

### Overview of Regional Groups & CoderDojo Regionalisation

National or regional led growth of CoderDojo in a country is typically
seen when a group form a regional body or group to support and open new
and existing Dojos operating in their region or country. This body or
group can either be either formal i.e registered entity or charity, or
informal i.e an assocaition of members. It is a core priority of the
CoderDojo Foundations to support regional groups, ensuring all bodies
have the tools and knowledge to set up according to the CoderDojo ethos.

A number of documents are available on this page for groups considering
setting up, or for community members looking to find out more about the
concept of Dojo Groups / Regionalisaiton.

  - Comparison of different types of Dojo Groups
  - Criteria for the Naming of a Regional Body
  - Dojo Groups Commitments
  - Regional Body License
  - MOU for Informal Regional Bodies
  - Supporting Documentation
  - Archived Previous Version of Regional License

**Regional Bodies (Informal & Formal)** A RegionalBody is where a group
of champions/mentors supported by the majority of dojos within a region
form a structure and body that represents and supports those dojos
ofthat region. The formation of a body or entity helps give dojos that
were once independent greater flexibility and allows them to provide
more support for existing and new Dojos in their area. Many regional
bodies share resources and to make their Dojos better for the young
people who attend them or to increase the reach of their Dojos by
promoting them at local events. They can also be established to
encourage and to facilitate other Dojos starting in nearby locations.
Regional and national bodies can also be an effective way to reduce the
administrative overhead of the Dojos involved in the group, in a
particular area, especially when there are tasks that need to be
duplicated, e.g.; sourcing mentors, fundraising or performing background
checks on mentors. There are already several informal regional bodies
around the world and formal bodies. The difference between a formal body
is that a formal body has achieved a non-profit status within its region
and successfully signed the CoderDojo regional license with the
CoderDojo Foundation. informal groups are set up by individuals who wish
to actively encourage growth of new Dojos in their regions or to share
administrative tasks across their regions, examples include:

**Informal Regional Bodies**

  - CoderDojo Romania
  - CoderDojo Italia
  - CoderDojo Spain

**Formal Regional Bodies:**

  - CoderDojo Western Australia
  - CoderDojo Netherlands
  - CoderDojo Indiana
  - CoderDojo WestSound
  - CoderDojo Turkey

**Scenarios for establishing a regional body** There are a number of
different scenarios that may result in a regional body being
established, these include but are not limited to:

  - A Champion(s) seeks to establish a body in a region where there are
    a few Dojos (e.g 10 Dojos),
  - A Champion(s) seeks to establish a body in a region where there are
    many Dojos (e.g 20+ Dojos),
  - Government organisation wishes to drive the growth of CoderDojo
    within a region,
  - Charitable organisation wishes to support the growth of CoderDojo
    within a region or a
  - Corporation wishes to fund and drive the growth of CoderDojo in a
    region.

*' Scenarios for ​NOT​ establishing a regional body*' There are a number
of different scenarios that may result in why a regional body should not
be established, these include but are not limited to:

  - A Dojo or group do not have regional Dojo support as per the
    regional survey conducted,
  - A Dojo or group do not wish or intend to use the body to support or
    grow CoderDojo in their area,
  - An individual Dojo seeks to establish a body in a region where there
    is no existing community ie

their are no other Dojos and hence no community support or buy in,

  - An individual Dojo seeks to establish a body in a region where a
    Dojo has only recently been

established,

  - A Dojo or group seeks to establish a body in a region that
    encompasses a small region when it is

possible to incorporate a larger region or,

  - A Dojo or group seeks to establish a body in a region to be
    exclusive to other Dojos within a region.
  - A corporate seeks to become an exclusive partner ofCoderDojo in a
    region and wishes to set up a

regional body to support this.

**Naming of a body** A central aspect to establishing a regional body,
is ensuring that the chosen (geographical) name is representative ofthe
active Dojos in that area, e.g If oneChampion chooses to
establishCoderDojo Ireland without acknowledgment and reasonable
supportfrom most ofthe other 160Champions in the region,the body is not
deemed to be legitimately representative, and therefore cannot use the
term CoderDojo Ireland.

To proceed with establishing a regional body for a jurisdiction, the
below steps must be followed

  - Notify other Dojos and Champions within the remit of the
    jurisdiction you seek to establish the

body, ○ Invite local Champions to be involved in the setup of the
organisation including the development of its aims, objectives and
values, ○ Clearly outline the reasons for wishing to set up a regional
body, ○ Clearly outline the timeframe to respond (minimum of 1 month, ○
Hold a group virtual call / meeting (a member of the Foundation team can
join via conferencing facilities) and ○ Send at least one follow up
email during the given timeframe.

  - In order to proceed with representing the jurisdiction, a regional
    body must secure 50% support

from the total number of Dojos who respond within the jurisdiction. Note
non-responding Dojos are counted as a void vote; ○ If over 70% of Dojos
in a region do not respond the individual seeking to establish the body
should contact the Foundation for next steps, ○ Example A: 100 Dojos in
a region; 30 respond to support a body, 20 repond not to support, 50 are
unresponsive = regional body can proceed or ○ Example B: 100 Dojos in a
region, 15 respond to support, 10 respond not to support, 75 are
unresponsive = contact Foundation.

*' The role of a Regional Body:*' Although regional groups may be
established for a number of reasons, all should be set up for the same
purpose; to provide a geographical infrastructure to support and promote
the global aims and operations of CoderDojo in a specific region. This
could include supporting growth i.e opening new dojos, recruiting
mentors, sustaining existing Dojos or providing a relevant financial and
legal frameworks for local and regional sponsorship etc.

**Core activities of Regional bodies can include:**

  - Facilitating the expansion of the CoderDojo movement within the
    relevant region(s), i.e sourcing

venues, mentors etc.

  - Support groups of Dojos with regional promotions, services and
    resources,
  - Provide relevant financial and legal frameworks for Dojos in a
    region,
  - Represent CoderDojo on a regional or national level,
  - Create region specific resources for Dojos eg Child Protection
    Policies, training, translation of

resources etc and / or

  - Provide training and social events to build capability,
    maintainCoderDojo ethos and to strengthen

networks. 2.3 Regional Body Commitments All regional bodies regardless
of their structure /formal or informal should use the below best
practices as the basis for their memorandum and articles of association,
or for their incorporation documents:

  - to inspire and support young people to learn how to create
    technology;
  - to always uphold the best interests of the young people attending
    Dojos and ensuring

best-practices are followed;

  - to operate within the highest possible standards of child protection
    within our jurisdiction and in

compliance with relevant statutory requirements;

  - to not charge children attending nor their parents;
  - to encourage parent participation within Dojos;
  - to share knowledge for free (libre and open);
  - to share knowledge within and across Dojos;
  - to take care and uphold the good name and reputation of the global
    CoderDojo community and

the work of The CoderDojo Foundation;

  - to encourage collaboration, peer to peer mentoring and project work
    between attendees and

Dojos;

  - to welcome volunteers and children regardless of gender, race,
    sexual orientation, creed, religion

or ability;

  - to act in the best interests of the global CoderDojo community;
  - to facilitate the community and to share its knowledge;
  - to share its resources for free; and
  - to encourage active involvement across the movement

**Considerations when starting a regional body.** The decision to start
a regional body should not be taken lightly. Establishing a body
specifically a formal group will have legislative and regulatory
requirements depending on your jurisdiction. Many regional groups have
faced challenges securing pro bono legal support to assist with
incorporation among other challenges. - What other considerations??? -
Funding - Personal liability - etc

**Regional Body FAQ** Q: Can there be regional bodies if a National body
exists in the same geography? A: Yes, following guidelines as outlined
above. Q: Do all new Dojos have to operate under the regional/national
banner? A: No. Dojos can choose to operate independently of regional and
national bodies in their locations. However all Dojos should connect
with the regional body to support and facilitate knowledge sharing. This
introduction can be facilitated by the CoderDojo Foundation or directly
between the Dojos and regional
group.

## CoderDojo Regional License

<pdf width="900" height="1000"><http://kata.coderdojo.com/images/0/0a/RegionalLicenseDecember2016.pdf></pdf>

## CoderDojo Regionalisation MOU

The below documents outlines an MOU which is for regional groups with
informal structure types.

<pdf width="900" height="1000">MOUCDFInformalRegionalBodies.pdf</pdf>

## CoderDojo Regionalisation Letter of Intent

<pdf width="900" height="1000">LetterofIntent-Regionalisation.pdf</pdf>

## CoderDojo Regionalisation Supporting Document

[CoderDojo Regionalisation Supporting
Document](../files/SupportingDoc-Regionalisation.pdf)

## **Dojo Group Guidance**

[Dojo Group Guidance
Document](../files/DojoGroupsGuidance.pdf)

## **Dojo Group Case Studies**

[**CoderDojo
Italia**](../files/CaseStudy-CoderDojoItalia.pdf)

CoderDojo Italia is an informal group of Dojos that support each other
by sharing their experience of organising and running their individual
Dojos via Mentor meet ups and online communications.

[**CoderDojo
Romania**](../files/CaseStudy-CoderDojoRomania.pdf)

CoderDojo Romania & Moldova is informal regional a group of Dojos that
aim to catalyze the initiation of other local Dojos across Romania &
Republic of Moldova by helping each other find potential local
Champions, Mentors and Organisers. Once found, we continue to support
these Champions, Mentors and Organisers in starting a new Dojo and then
continue with supporting them via promotion, advice, events and
resources.

[**CoderDojo Western
Australia**](../files/CaseStudy-CoderDojoWesternAustralia.pdf)

CoderDojo WA was formed by the Fogarty Foundation (charity) in 2013.
Their principal partner is Scitech, which is the major Science Discovery
Centre for children in Western Australia. Learn more about Scitech
[here](http://www.scitech.org.au/)

\[<http://kata.coderdojo.com/images/b/b3/CaseStudy-CoderDojoScotland.pdf>**CoderDojo
Scotland**\]

CoderDojo Scotland is an informal regional group starting more Dojos
across the country monthly. CoderDojo Scotland was initially formed
after mailing CoderDojo co­-founder, James Whelton, about starting the
first Dojo in Scotland.

[**CoderDojo
Belgium**](../files/CaseStudy-CoderDojoBelgium.pdf)

"Coderdojo Belgium" is set up as a non-profit which carries the
CoderDojo brand in Belgium.

[**CoderDojo
Poland**](../files/CaseStudy-CoderDojoPoland.pdf)

CoderDojo Poland is a registered non-profit organisation of Dojos.
CoderDojo Poland formed when there was only one Dojo in Poland
(Zambrów).

## Archived Previous Regional License

The following License is the previous original version of the licence
that has been signed and agreed with a number established regional
bodies. [**Previous Regional
License**](File:Regional_License_Final.pdf.md)
