## Summary

 Programming your first Arduino controlled robot will
introduce you to interactions with real things - motors and sensors. The
hardware and software platform you build in this project can go on to
form the basis of lots of fun and challenging projects. 

### Why Arduino

Arduino is a widely available open-source electronics platform based on
easy-to-use hardware and software. The Arduino Integrated Development
Environment (IDE) provides a means to edit programmes and upload them to
a variety of physical boards. The Arduino programming language is built
upon C++, so advanced users can build complex code and in particular
libraries, but at first much of the complexity of this is hidden from
the user. Many libraries are available to support a variety of devices
which can be connected to Arduino platforms - these greatly simplify
their use as beginners can easily include the appropriate libraries and
focus on the functionality that they want to achieve without having to
get into the detail of the hardware. We will be using libraries where
available to support this project.

## Tips for use

This project is based on a very cheap Arduino 2 wheel drive "smart robot
car chassis kit" which is readily available (just search on the
internet). The plastic chassis comes with wheels, motors, caster and a
battery holder for 4xAA 1.5V cells. Other than the obvious need for an
Arduino e.g.
[Leonardo](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Main/ArduinoBoardLeonardo) (but
virtually any will do) a motor driver must be added. We used the
[DRV8835 Dual Motor Driver Shield for
Arduino](https://www.pololu.com/product/2511) made by Pololu but
available around the world through various distributors.

![Picture of finished First Arduino Robot](../files/img/First_Arduino_Robot.jpg
"Picture of finished First Arduino Robot")

## Content

#### Connecting and using the motors on the Robot

[Arduino_Motors.pdf](../files/Arduino_Motors.pdf)

#### Using simple inputs from proximity sensors to control the Robot

[Arduino_Inputs.pdf](../files/Arduino_Inputs.pdf)
