**IBM Bluemix\!**

Bluemix (https://ibm.biz/bluemix4kids) is an open-standards, cloud-based
platform ([1](https://developer.ibm.com/opentech/)) to build, manage,
and run apps of all types, including Web, Mobile, Big data, Smart
devices - and many more. Bluemix offers a single solution environment
with the instant resources (e.g. sample code) and infrastructure (e.g.
services and runtimes) you need to develop and deploy apps.

If you're a developer, you now have a hand in creating the future.
Bluemix offers you all the instant services, runtimes, and
infrastructure you need to push your ideas into the present.

## What is IBM Bluemix

(Quoted from <http://www-01.ibm.com/software/ebusiness/jstart/bluemix/>)

Bluemix is an implementation of IBM’s Open Cloud Architecture,
leveraging Cloud Foundry to enable developers to rapidly build, deploy,
and manage their cloud applications, while tapping a growing ecosystem
of available services and runtime frameworks. IBM will provide services
and runtimes into the ecosystem based on our extensive software
portfolio.

In practical terms, this means that cloud applications built on Bluemix
will:

  -   - Reduce time for application/infrastructure provisioning
      - Allow for flexible capacity
      - Help to address any lack of internal tech resources
      - Reduce Total Cost of Ownership (TCO)
      - Accelerate exploration of new workloads – social, mobile, big
        data

## Enabling the transition

Part of any open cloud environment deployment includes cloud workloads
and capabilities that are available within the cloud. IBM has been
working to enable key functionality in the cloud based on early customer
engagements as well as input from developers.

## Bluemix: Making a difference in the cloud

When IBM envisioned Bluemix, we envisioned a system which would answer
the needs and challenges facing developers while at the same time
empowering and enabling businesses to leverage their resources in the
most efficient way possible. And we wanted to create a system that could
do this in concrete ways.

## For developers

This meant that we wanted a system that would significantly reduce the
time needed to create the application, to provision it, allow for
flexible capacity in terms of storage, but also bandwidth and processing
power, and which would handle the back-end infrastructure needs without
requiring the developer to spend their valuable time doing so--in other
words, allow developers to concentrate on doing what they do best--being
creative and developing top quality applications.

## IBM STEM Action Community call

  -   
    \* IBM CoderDojo Champions spoke briefly on an IBM STEM Action
    Community call which 400 IBMers from around the world joined\! See
    the slides from the call here:
    ![IBM\_STEM\_Action\_Community.ppt](IBM_STEM_Action_Community.ppt
    "IBM_STEM_Action_Community.ppt")
