## Where it all began

[https://groups.google.com/forum/\#\!msg/open-data-ireland/-LF3ZgcF1f4/o3WAmEXn5wUJ
Where it all
began.](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/open-data-ireland/-LF3ZgcF1f4/o3WAmEXn5wUJ_Where_it_all_began..md)

Event Date : 7 Nov 2011 Time : 1.30pm - 5.30pm Location : NDRC, Crane
Street, The Digital Hub, Dublin 8.

Theme: Commercialisation of OpenData will be driven by interactive
gaming? Discuss.

Open-data apps provide enormous benefit to citizens and public sector
services but perhaps the commercialisation and monetisation of opendata
applications will be realised by the interactive gaming industry, of
which Ireland is the European home to world leaders.

Following on from the successful OpenData 18HourChallenge, the NDRC and
the IIA have come together once again to explore creative options for
open-data in the context of education, social and play. We’ve lined up
some great test cases and examples as well as some creative perspectives
to spark ideas.

So bring your wildest ideas, your bluest skies or your blankest canvas…

Theme: Commercialisation of OpenData will be driven by interactive
gaming?

  - Emer Coleman –“Establishing a stable platform”– Oyster Card Game

<!-- end list -->

  - “Dublin by Numbers” Mary Mulvihill, educational gaming in our city

<!-- end list -->

  - Betapond – Declan Kennedy – Location based games OpenData App Opps

<!-- end list -->

  - Gabrielle Stafford – Twelve Horses –Commercialised OpenData

<!-- end list -->

  - Conor McGarrigle, Irish artist and creator of Namaland

<http://www.slideshare.net/romrack/gamification-meets-big-data>

  - [Return to Make a game](Tutorials_by_Galway.md)

## Gamification of Coderdojo

The grading might be very linear, in a vertical direction, whereas
gamification might be more like scout badges, like stackoverflow. That
way kids could get badges in the areas they excel at, maybe then belts
would come from getting a number of badges, not just certain badges.

Badges like Project Manager, coder, thinker, designer, mentor(student
mentor),

## What is Gamification?

### Wikipedia

Gamification is the use of game thinking and game mechanics in a
non-game context in order to engage users and solve problems.
Gamification is used in applications and processes to improve user
engagement, Return on Investment, data quality, timeliness, and
learning. The word was coined by Nick Pelling.\[5\] Contents

### Gamification Techniques

Gamification techniques leverage people's natural desires for
competition, achievement, status, self-expression, altruism, and
closure.

A core strategy for gamifying is to provide rewards for players for
accomplishing desired tasks. Types of rewards include points,
achievement badges or levels, the filling of a progress bar, and
providing the user with virtual currency.

Competition is another element of games that can be used in
gamification. Making the rewards for accomplishing tasks visible to
other players or providing leader boards are ways of encouraging players
to compete.

Another approach to gamification is to make existing tasks feel more
like games.\[10\] Some techniques used in this approach include adding
meaningful choice, onboarding with a tutorial, increasing challenge, and
adding narrative.
