## Summary

 This is the course, initial created by No9 (Anton), for
the Dublin Science Gallery CoderDojo. It aims to deliver:

  - Confidence with html and ability to make a webpage.
  - Understanding what is going on ‘behind the web page’, so that tags,
    css, variables, functions, https and JSON are not a mystery.
  - Introduction to animation and programming concepts, ready for more
    advanced courses.



\_\_TOC\_\_

## Resources

  - [Github Html & Javascript files for No9′s
    course](https://github.com/CoderDojo/Dublin-HTML)

A set of [activity
cards](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iKQNxIU7fUz4b7KQ9HiyuGGifzkv9lbvaB6Mex3caJk/edit)
allows students in the same room to go at their own pace, trying out
coding tricks that are at the level they choose. These start being used
once the course has reached the ‘animation2.html’ example. Having these
cards gives an additional way to check that we know what the students
are and aren’t understanding.

## Prerequisites

The course assumes no prior knowledge. It starts with a discussion about
the internet and the sites the students like. We put together a list of
what they want to achieve from the course.

## Style

The course is practical. The emphasis is on seeing the results in a
browser and trying out changes. It’s teaching by doing and seeing the
results, the output, rather than by starting from the abstract concepts.

## Content

### Week 1-4

The first project is to build a simple site with HTML, H1, IMG, P tags.
It’s followed over several weeks by each student building a well styled
profile page using html and css. This develops familiarity with html and
css and using an editor to change html and view the results in a web
browser. Gradually the jargon gets covered including :

  - Html tags, pixels, gifs, hyperlink, attribute, div, CSS stylesheets.

We aim to have a strong foundation in all of this. Mentors go round the
class making sure the students understand and encouraging them to make
changes.

As the course develops, students also learn how to use resources like
w3schools.com to find out information for themselves, and find the
information they need to solve problems. They also learn to work with
each other and teach each other – working on their own and in small
groups.

### Week 5+

Students will modify the html to get different outcomes, for example
positioning a logo by editing the file. This is where animation and some
programming now comes in. It starts with a javascript example,
animation1.html, to animate the logo so that it keeps moving, bouncing
from one side of the screen to the other. Over the next few weeks the
students learn how to make changes to both the html and the javascript
of this example. By doing this and modifying related examples they also
learn some of the fundamentals of programming, such as variables,
functions and events.

### Week 8+

Where the course goes, what web pages we make, will follow from the
students’ interests and from the list we built at the start of the
course. Tools we’ll use include libraries like Bret Victor’s ‘tangle’
that make interactive web pages easier.
