## Use LinkedIn to find CoderDojo mentors

Finding mentors in a suburban area like Henry County is challenging
since there are no established tech groups in our local area. A good way
to find mentors especially in a suburban area is to use LinkedIn
features. We had about 1 mentor signup for every 10 mentors we contacted
through LinkedIn.

Have a location and a start date for your first coding session before
you begin to solicit mentors.

## Setup Mentor Signup Form

Use a system like Google Forms or signupgenius.com to build a Mentor
Signup Form. The CoderDojo McDonough Mentor Signup Form is an example
google form. If you use Google Forms, make sure you set the notification
preferences of the spreadsheet so that your are emailed when new mentors
sign up.

## Locate mentors

Using LinkedIn's advanced search feature, find LinkedIn members within
10km of your zip code who have a developer keyword in their profile.
Keyword examples for finding coding mentors are JavaScript, HTML CSS,
Python, Ruby on Rails, PHP, .Net, and csharp

## Double check mentors

When we first sent messages to possible mentors, we recieved a couple of
responses from developers who no longer lived in the area. We used
whitepages.com to search for the developer's name and city to see if
they still had a local address. This is not exact, but it will help
filter out some developers who used to live near you but have moved and
not updated their LinkedIn
profile.

## Upgrade your LinkedIn account to a Premium "Executive" trial or paid LinkedIn account

Try to obtain a 30 day free trial for a LinkedIn Premium account. A few
days after I visited the page with details about paid accounts, I
recieved a 30 day free trial email from LinkedIn. Choose the the
Executive plan so that you have 25 inmail messages. Messages that are
not responded to are returned to your account after 7 days, so in the 30
day period you should be able to send 70 to 100 inmail messages to local
mentors. When you see a message from LinkedIn saying your inmail credits
have been returned, make sure you message new mentors that day.

## Send inmail messages to possible mentors

Use the Mentor Solicitation Email template as a starting point for the
message you'll send to mentors. Keep a list of the mentors you've
contacted. When you search for more mentors later it will be helpful to
know which developers you've already contacted.

## Follow-up with interested mentors

If a developer expresses interest but they do not complete the Mentor
Signup Form, contact the developer again.
