## Summary

 [Ninjas](Ninjas.md) learn to edit sprites in
scratch. 

## Tips for use

You will need to either install Scratch on the
[Ninja](Ninja.md)'s machine or use the [web-based
editor](https://scratch.mit.edu/) in advance of using these cards.

## Content

The following scripts demonstrate the basics of changing how the
character (or sprite) looks

Note: To find yellow blocks go to 'Control' and to find purple blocks go
to 'Looks'

For more information on graphic effects go to
[http://wiki.scratch.mit.edu/wiki/Graphic\_Effect](http://wiki.scratch.mit.edu/wiki/Graphic_Effect.md)

-----

'''Make the character look like it is walking on the spot when the green
flag is clicked '''

Note :

If you click on the costume tab for the cat sprite you will see that
there are 2 costumes.

![costume1.png](../files/img/costume1.png "costume1.png")

This script will switch between the two to make the cat look like it is
walking. The wait is put in to slow down the switch between the
costumes.

![costume.png](../files/img/costume.png "costume.png")

-----

'''Make the character say 'Hello' when the a key is pressed '''

Note : For 2 seconds a speech bubble will appear about the sprites head
with 'Hello' in it. You can change the number of seconds by clicking on
the 2 and changing.

![say.png](../files/img/say.png "say.png")

-----

'''Make the character think 'Hmmm ...' when the b key is pressed '''

Note : For 2 seconds a thought bubble will appear about the sprites head
with 'Hmmm ...' in it. You can change the number of seconds by clicking
on the 2 and changing.

![think.png](../files/img/think.png "think.png")

-----

'''Change the colour of the character 8 times when the c key is pressed
'''

Note : There are 200 colours so by changing the colour effect by 25 8
times the character finishes at the colour that it started as. Try
changing the 25 to 1 and the 8 to 200 to see all 200 colours.

![colour.png](../files/img/colour.png "colour.png")

-----

'''Change the fisheye effect of the character 8 times when the d key is
pressed '''

Note : The fisheye effect makes the character look like it would through
a wide angle lens. The 'set fisheye effect to 0' at the end is used to
reset the character back to normal.

![fisheye.png](../files/img/fisheye.png "fisheye.png")

-----

'''Change the whirl effect of the character 8 times when the e key is
pressed '''

Note : The whirl effect makes the character whirl around its central
point. The 'set whirl effect to 0' at the end is used to reset the
character back to normal.

![whirl.png](../files/img/whirl.png "whirl.png")

-----

'''Change the pixelate effect of the character 8 times when the f key is
pressed '''

Note : The pixelate effect makes the character pixelated. The 'set
pixelate effect to 0' at the end is used to reset the character back to
normal.

![pixelate.png](../files/img/pixelate.png "pixelate.png")

-----

'''Change the mosaic effect of the character 8 times when the g key is
pressed '''

Note : The mosaic effect makes lots of small copies of the character.
The 'set mosaic effect to 0' at the end is used to reset the character
back to normal.

![mosaic.png](../files/img/mosaic.png "mosaic.png")

-----

'''Change the brightness effect of the character 8 times when the h key
is pressed '''

Note : The 'set brightness effect to 0' at the end is used to reset the
character back to normal.

![brightness.png](../files/img/brightness.png "brightness.png")

-----

'''Change the ghost effect of the character 8 times when the i key is
pressed '''

Note : The ghost effect fades the sprite in and out. The 'set brightness
effect to 0' at the end is used to reset the character back to normal.

![ghost.png](../files/img/ghost.png "ghost.png")

-----

Note: You can also undo the graphc effects above by changing the
relevant effect by a negative number e.g 'change fisheye effect by -25'

-----

You can put all of the above code snippets into one script for a
character and change the look of the character depending on what key has
been pressed

![Looksbasics.png](../files/img/Looksbasics.png "Looksbasics.png")
