### Alliance Resources

The following schools are great starter resources to learn the basics of
computer programming.

  - 
    
      -   
        You can find some great starter resources created by our friends
        at Code Club [here](http://projects.codeclub.org.uk/). Code Club
        are a UK based nationwide network of volunteer-led after school
        coding clubs for children aged 9-11.

<!-- end list -->

  - 
    
      -   
        We also recommend working with
        [Code.org](http://studio.code.org/),[Code
        Academy](http://www.codecademy.com/)and
        [W3Schools](http://www.w3schools.com/) resources to help young
        people learn the basics of computer programming which they can
        then apply to their own projects. The [Blockly Maze
        Game](https://blockly-demo.appspot.com/static/apps/maze/index.html?lang=en)is
        also a great way of allowing young people to explore learning to
        code in a fun and intuitive way. Lightbot is also a great tool
        for introducing young people to coding logic, you can see the
        free CoderDojo edition of Lightbot
        [here.](http://coderdojo.com/lightbot-coderdojo-edition)

<!-- end list -->

  - 
    
      -   
        [Alice](http://www.alice.org/index.php#) is a free innovative 3D
        programming environment that makes it easy to create an
        animation for telling a story, playing an interactive game, or a
        video to share on the web. Alice is a freely available teaching
        tool designed to be a student's first exposure to
        object-oriented programming.

<!-- end list -->

  - 
    
      -   
        App Inventor is also used in Dojos a lot as well to help young
        people learn how to develop apps, you can see App Inventor
        [here.](http://appinventor.mit.edu/explore)

<!-- end list -->

  - 
    
      -   
        You can also explore TouchDevelop which lets you create apps on
        iPad, iPhone, Android, PC, Mac, Windows Phone. Their
        touch-friendly editor makes coding fun, even on your phone or
        tablet\! You can see TouchDevelop
        [here](https://www.touchdevelop.com/).

<!-- end list -->

  - 
    
      -   
        Vidcode, a video coding platform designed with girls in mind
        that is not only self-expressive, but paired with a hobby girls
        love – creating and sharing videos. You can lwearn more about
        Vidcode and use the app [here.](http://www.vidcode.io/)

<!-- end list -->

  - 
    
      -   
        Turtle Academy is a project which contains a client side
        learning environment and a compiler for the Logo Programming
        language.The project enables to learn the Logo language and
        programming principles and can be used for programming logo. You
        can see Turtle Academy [here.](http://turtleacademy.com/)

:\* **[Alice](http://www.alice.org/index.php#)** : is a free innovative
3D programming environment that makes it easy to create an animation for
telling a story, playing an interactive game, or a video to share on the
web. Alice is a freely available teaching tool designed to be a
student's first exposure to object-oriented programming.

:\* **[App Inventor](http://appinventor.mit.edu/explore/)** : is also
used in Dojos a lot as well to help young people learn how to develop
apps

:\* **[Blockly Maze
Game](https://blockly-demo.appspot.com/static/apps/maze/index.html?lang=en)**
: is also a great way of allowing young people to explore learning to
code fun and intuitively.

:\* **[Code.org](http://studio.code.org/)** : is an American
organization aimed at increasing participation by children of all ages.
Members can try 'an hour of code' and create their own games and apps.

:\* **[Code Academy](http://www.codecademy.com/)** : lets you join over
24 million other users and helps you get started with basic programming

:\* **[Code Club](http://projects.codeclub.org.uk/)** : are a UK based
nationwide network of volunteer-led after school coding clubs for
children aged 9-11.

:\* **[Computer Science
Online](http://www.computerscienceonline.org/degree-programs/programming/)**
: is an in-depth website for potential and current students considering
a career with computers, software engineering, and more.

:\* **[Eliademy](http://www.eliademy.com/love/)** : is part of UN Global
Compact and offers a free platform for all ages. It has a mission to
democratize education with technology. Learn
[HTML](https://eliademy.com/catalog/featured/learn-html5-programming-from-scratch.html/),
[Java](https://eliademy.com/catalog/catalog/product/view/sku/a2ac973124/)
, [Web
Development](https://eliademy.com/catalog/catalog/product/view/sku/3be0a5bfb7/),
and [How to build
sites](https://eliademy.com/catalog/catalog/product/view/sku/4651568d08/)
. You can also learn
[Wordpress](https://eliademy.com/catalog/catalog/product/view/sku/77fb6e642d/)
, [How to build mobile
apps](https://eliademy.com/catalog/featured/learn-to-build-mobile-apps-from-scratch.html/)
and be introduced to
[HTML 5](https://eliademy.com/catalog/introduction-to-html5.html/) .
Become a programmer with Eliademy
[here](https://eliademy.com/catalog/so-you-want-to-be-a-programmer.html/).

:\* **[Lightbot](http://coderdojo.com/lightbot-coderdojo-edition/)** :
The free CoderDojo edition of Lightbot is also a great tool for
introducing young people to coding logic

:\* **[TouchDevelop](https://www.touchdevelop.com/)** : lets you also
explore and create apps on iPad, iPhone, Android, PC, Mac, Windows
Phone. Their touch-friendly editor makes coding fun, even on your phone
or tablet\!

:\* **[Turtle Academy](http://turtleacademy.com/)** : is a project which
contains a client side learning environment and a compiler for the Logo
Programming language.The project enables to learn the Logo language and
programming principles and can be used for programming logo.

:\* **[Vidcode](http://www.vidcode.io/)** : is a video coding platform
designed with girls in mind that is not only self-expressive, but paired
with a hobby girls love – creating and sharing videos.

:\* **[W3Schools](http://www.w3schools.com/)** : resources to help young
people learn the basics of computer programming which they can then
apply to their own projects.

![centre|500px](../files/img/other_resources_banner.png "centre|500px")
