## Summary

 Video's for classroom practices 

## Content

### Flipping the Classroom

Kids at Dojos should not be forced into standardised courses where
everyone has to conform to the same standards at the same point in time.
We can instead produce online content which can be accessed and
assimilated by children at home which gives them an increase in their
knowledge which they can then bring to the group and interact in a
spontaneous manner except this time with a lot more knowledge already
under their belt. Watch Salman Khan talking about the inverted classroom
in the clip.

It would great to create an opensource and dynamic map of learning
progression where kids can track their learning with a basic
understanding of dependency (e.g. if you want to do relational database
programming with sql you need to have an understanding of html, php, sql
queries, phpmyadmin? and relational databases). You can see how khan
academy has already created a map such as this for the subject of
mathematics [Here](http://www.khanacademy.org/exercisedashboard)
{{\#evt: service=youtube
|id=<http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HkMS6Glswig> |alignment=center }}  
\===Sugata Mithra - Kids teaching Kids=== Kids teach kids much more
effectively than a single mentor could ever impart knowledge. This is
slightly terrifying for those trained in standard pedagogical methods.
Instead we need to utilise the grandma method of open encouragement with
only limited structured lecture. {{\#evt: service=youtube
|id=<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dk60sYrU2RU> |alignment=center }}  
\===An Open Source Movement===

An open source movement such as CoderDojo has a classical long tail
distribution curve, with a few key kids giving a lot and many giving a
little (same with the mentors). This necessarily means there are large
group sizes and a high turnover rate. It is therefore impossible to
standardise the achievement of programming competence. Instead, content
can be developed and circulated between dojos, allowing individual
mentors to decide whether to operate completely open computer clubs or
more focused courseware arrangements.

The intent of CoderDojo is to remain non-commercial. It is encouraged to
give participants an overview of how you made your game. Talk about what
tools you used and why you chose some tools over others. Talk about what
techical challenges you faced. It would be *really* awesome if you
wanted to help others build their own games or help you make yours
better. But, it is not cool to ask people to buy your application at
CoderDojo, for that you should ask them to contact you outside of
CoderDojo. {{\#evt: service=ted
|id=<http://www.ted.com/talks/clay_shirky_on_institutions_versus_collaboration.html>
|alignment=center }}  
\===More Recommended Videos===

1.  [**What Most Schools Don't
    Teach**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=nKIu9yen5nc)
2.  [**Ken Robinson, Changing Education
    Paradigms**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zDZFcDGpL4U)
3.  [**Reading, Writing, and Programming: Mitch Resnick
    TEDx**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=42_30Rgf6F0)
4.  [**Scary School Nightmare:Ivan Illich, Deschooling
    Society**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZUoYAj7Nosg)
