To participate in the the proposal discussions -please register and use
the proposal document's Talk function

# Part I Structure

## Main Page

1\) Introduction:

2\) Dojogame - Web Programming ( HTML5, CSS3 Javascript, PHP Mysql)

3\) ScratchTastic\! - Beginner and Advanced material and ideas for the
MIT visual coding resource)

4\) …... Next coding language, syllabus, style of coding

5\) Other Languages (Python ,Java, C, ) Once a language gets enough
resources it gets moved to 4.

6\) The Hardware Laboratory (Arduinos - raspberry PIs)

7\) The Studio - ( Gimp, Photoshop, Audacity,Reaper)

8\) Administrative Resources (including Child Protection Templates,
Advice on running and maintaining a dojo, )

## Introduction

Kata.coderdojo.com is our knowedgebase. Here we store the experiences
and knowledge for mentors to share, adapt and remix How to get involved
- How this area of the site is moderated. - Warning about the warranty
less code - Open source and Creative Commons. Technical support wil be
offered on the main coderdojo.com forums.

## Dojogame

HTML5,Css3, Javascript Php Mysql. From the simplest game written in 5
lines of code to Complex persistent universes, this section takes you
through the unlimited world of online web based game creation.

## ScratchTastic\!

MIT’s massively popular visual educational programming language designed
for 6-14 year olds and used by schools and dojos across the world. Here
you will find links, tutortials, slides , printable pdfs and demo code.

## Next Language

So what will the Next Language be? will it be Java or Python? That tall
depends on what resources are supplied by the mentors across the world.
Once enough material is gathered from section 5 Other languages to
warrant a section of it’s own, Creating a category for this language
will be trivial.

## Other Languages And Operating Systems

Java, Python, objective C and other mobile languages, Logo, Blockly, ASP
.Net . Various links, original material, and investigations into
languages or larger syllabus size projects until they warrant a chapter
by themselves. By combining it with Operating systems we guarantee
constant integrated and refreshed content.

## The Hardware Laboratory

Arduinos Raspberry Pis, Electronic kits, NodeJs copters, Kinects and
other controllers.

## The Studio

Graphic Progams such as Gimp, Photoshop, Dreamweaver Visual Programming
with Blender, various moviemakers and editors. Audio and visual coding
using Processing(and processingJS), Csound, MaxMSP, PureData Audio
editing with Audacity

## Administrative Resources

CoderDojo Overview & History| Mentor Methodologies|Local Dojo setup |
Guiding Principles and Philosophies |About - History

Mentor Methodologies

How to include Gamers - The Trouble with a Lecture Theater - Moving
Beyond Scratch

Bringing in Outside Speakers - Kids all at Different Levels- What do We
Teach Next?

Dodgy Wifi-Involving Parents - Child/Mentor Protection-

Within coder dojo there is great variety in dojos. There is no set
syllabus in any. One motto that has been used is that in coderdojo the
only syllabus is 'how to make a web page'.

### Local Dojo Setup

  - FAQ's for Parents
  - FAQ's for Organisers & Champions
  - Setting up a new Dojo

Booking/Registration - Belts and Badges - Recognising Achievement

Not Enough Mentors- Template Press Release - Laptops available for
disadvantaged children

### Guiding Principles and Philosophies

Flipping the Classroom - Kids teaching Kids -An Opensource Movement

# Part II Implementation

## Accreditation

I copied my accreditation process from Drogheda's see example 1 below.
By continuing to use this method, each name can be quickly turned into a
bio if desired- like mine (example 2).

By accrediting this way the actual articles can be arranged by topic,
rather than by dojo. Where there is obvious duplicate content I will
combine the content and combine the credits.

Example 1

  - HTML/CSS & Javascript - From Drogheda Dojo \#1,2. Credit: Mark
    Reilly
  - An introduction to JQuery - From Drogheda Dojo March 2012. Credit:
    Jonathan Callan
  - HTML/CSS The Box Model - From Drogheda Dojo 28 July 2012. Credit
    Mark Reilly

Example 2

  - How to build a HTML game in 5 lines- From Galway Dojo \#1,1. Credit:
    [Techbot](User:Techbot.md)
  - How to build a HTML game in 5 lines Part II - From Galway Dojo
    \#1,2. Credit: [Techbot](User:Techbot.md)
  - How to build a HTML game in 5 lines Part III - From Galway Dojo
    \#1,3. Credit: [Techbot](User:Techbot.md)

## Reason for wiki

### Hierarchy of ideas

Wiki allows content creators to break any idea down into it's component
parts in an ordered and structured way. From complete chapters to single
sentences , lines of code or commands, wiki provides the resources to
properly document our ideas and experiences in a logical, consistent and
coherent manner, perfect for the coderdojo knowledge base.

### Instant creation

of pages from within a page: By using combinations of symbols ( for
example the equals symbol) one can quickly break a complex idea into its
components, and quickly re-assign priority by adding or removing the
number of symbols before and after a topic heading.

### Version control

As we refactor the content both text and code we can do so in the
knowledge that we can rewind to any point if it all goes horribly wrong

### Collaboration

Because it is so easy to rewind others are encouraged to collab safe in
the knowledge that any queries, misunderstandings etc can be resolved
using the talk function, cross referenced with the revision system.

### Low entry point

You don't have to grok all the commands at once, just break your content
into paragraphs, over time as you proceed your wiki documents will
become more sophisticated as you pick up the commands.

### Code Highlighting

not sure if we have implemented this, but wikis recognition of code
syntax is growing as new plugins are constantly being created.

### Cross Referencing

is a breeze. If the topic already exists- placing a square bracket
around your term will create a link. if the topic doesn't exist, wiki
creates a redlink which is an open invitation for someone else to fill
in the gap and create the topic.

## Moderation

I can refactor most of the kata without removing any content (so
controversy will be kept to a minimum). I will combine a few articles
where content matter is almost identical. Mostly I will simply be
reordering the content according tie the categorisation in the google
doc. Moderation will mostly be dealt with by the wiki system, any
contributor can flag and unflag during negotiations. There might be the
odd over-commercial plug that will need to be examined(if the pool of
contributors gets too large).

## Extended Environment

I'd hope that contributors can use the blogging facility on the main
site to discuss kata ideas, code refactors, roadmaps etc and to use the
forums for technical support to other mentors and kids. Published by
Google Drive–Report Abuse–Updated automatically every 5 minutes
