## Summary

 A guide to starting up a Dojo. 

## Content

### Main Steps Towards Starting a Dojo

#### **1. Gather your Team**

Once we have found out a little more about you and your proposed Dojo
the next step is for you to find some [Mentors and
Volunteers](Mentors_and_Volunteers.md) to help you organise and
run your Dojo. We recommend gathering a team of interested and dedicated
individuals from the start, it will really have a positive impact on
your Dojo and cut down the workload for everyone involved.

If it is legally required in your area it is important that you and your
mentors are sufficiently **background checked** to ensure your safety
and that of the young people you will be working with.

**You can [find out more about background checking
here](Child_Protection_and_Background_Checking.md).**

  - You do not need to have a big team but it is always better to have
    support from a core team when organising a Dojo so that one
    individual is not responsible for all of the administrative and
    organisational work.

<!-- end list -->

  - Find interested local technical volunteers to mentor, find parents
    who can help out and volunteer when they bring their children etc.
    You can then have planning meetings with your team in advance of
    setting up your Dojo. You can see our **Mentor Guide** in our
    [Mentors and Volunteers](Mentors_and_Volunteers.md) section,
    it could be a great tool for helping you gather some local mentors.

#### **2. Find your Venue**

The next step then is to find your Venue A good venue is vitally
important for running a successful Dojo, **Dojo's cannot be hosted in
private residences** such as a house or apartment. A good example of a
venue would be a library, business, canteens, schools or community
centres. We recommend that the young people attending bring their own
laptops so the venue should have, at least, plug sockets for laptops,
internet access and tables and chairs for the attendees. We recommend
looking into local community spaces such as schools,libraries, community
centres, youth centres, colleges and universities etc. as spaces for
hosting your Dojo. You can also consider approaching businesses,
hackspaces, tech hubs and conference centres in your local area.

#### **3. Set a Date and Plan**

Once you have found your Venue and gathered a team of Mentors and
Volunteers you can begin to Plan your Dojo. You can hold planning
meetings with your team and plan promoting your Dojo and getting kids to
come, getting more mentors involved and what Learning Resources you wish
to use in your Dojo.

  - Pick a date to get started, have a meeting with your team to plan
    what content you are going to cover with your mentors and advertise
    your Dojo so that you have some kids to come along\!

<!-- end list -->

  - We recommend setting up an email address and Twitter account
    specifically for your Dojo to deal with queries and promote your
    Dojo. If it possible we also recommend setting up a website for your
    Dojo where you can deal with your own registration, mentor
    recruitment etc. It is possible as well to use a simple free blog
    tool such as [Wordpress](http://wordpress.com/) which will host your
    content and provide you with a domain.

<!-- end list -->

  - You can check out [Kata's Learning
    Resources](Learning_Resource.md)
    section, our community wiki, for samples of lessons and projects
    that have been used in other Dojos around the world.

<!-- end list -->

  - Most Dojos run once a week/twice a month etc. We recommend deciding
    on a regular time and date for your Dojo to ensure consistency. You
    can use [Zen](Zen.md) the community platform to schedule
    event and issue tickets for your Dojo to manage attendees.

#### **4. Get your Dojo verified on Zen**

Once you have found a Venue, some Mentors and Volunteers and have
settled on a target date for your Dojo to start the next step is to
register on [Zen](Zen.md), the Dojo listing system, and create a
listing for your Dojo. Once your listing has been verified you will
visible on the [global map of Dojos](http://zen.coderdojo.com/).

  - Once you have completed the above steps and are ready to get started
    you need to [register](http://zen.coderdojo.com/register), login and
    create a listing for your Dojo on our Dojo database
    [Zen.](http://zen.coderdojo.com) To create a listing for your Dojo
    on Zen you will need to sign the CoderDojo Charter of Ethics. You
    can see the Charter
    [here.](CoderDojo_Charter_of_Ethics.md)
