## Workshop date and location

Dublin CoderDojos ran a teacher/mentor workshop to strengthen CoderDojo
on **Sunday 19th August** in the **Science Gallery**. The rest of the
text on this page was written before it happened, and I am not going to
go through changing that.

The format is unlike what you are probably used to, and should be fun.

It's for sharing knowledge about how best to dojo, and planning around
how to make the dojos better. We'll be assisted by a professional
[graphic
recorder/facilitator](http://elfiegraphicrecording.blogspot.ie/)

  - The workshop will run from 2:30pm to 5.00pm.
  - We also have a mini-CoderDojo just before it, from 12:00 to 2.00 so
    teachers and mentors can, if they want to, arrive at the workshop
    early and see the Science Gallery CoderDojo in action.

We're bringing people from around Ireland together, aiming to build up
networking between the dojos, and share experience and ideas.

## The Workshop

The format is the opposite of a lecture.

We'll be using two studios in the Science Gallery with the partition
between the two moved aside to make more room.

## Form to request a workshop place

*(quota system is being used)*

  -   
    <http://goo.gl/oDIRM>

## The dojo-in-action

The details of how we will run the demo dojo may change, but this is the
current plan:

  - Kids will be at all levels, beginners and experienced.
  - For dojo visitors who want to join in mentoring there will be mentor
    'huddles' where mentors very quickly communicate key information. If
    you know Scratch, you'll be able to join in.
  - There will be space for dojo visitors to sit and watch or wander
    around seeing what is going on.
  - TBC: This is not for certain yet. There will be 'Scratch-space' for
    dojo-visitors who just want more Scratch know how, learned in the
    dojo environment.

With all that going on it's going to be chaos and order at the same
time.

## For booking dojo-in-action visit only...

The 'see the dojo in action' has a max of about 80 people, and so we
don't need to manage quotas for that.

To book for that alone, fill in the workshop place request form, and
make a note that you're not expecting a space for the workshop (use the
anything else box at the end). Filling in the form helps us anticipate
numbers, send update e-mails to you. Also because the workshop itself is
free there could easily be a few no shows for the workshop on the day.
If there are, the spare places will go to people who are there on the
day and on the sign up list.

## Laptops

The workshop is for brainstorming and discussing and so doesn't need
laptops. Observing the mini dojo and helping at the mini dojo don't need
laptops either. For being in the 'Scratch space' at the mini dojo, you
should have BYOB (which is based on Scratch) installed. We use it is so
that kids can make their own blocks, and so get the idea of functions.

## Updates

**14 July 2012:** We've now expanded the workshop to the maximum size we
can, and so still have some spaces for CoderDojo mentors from outside
Dublin. If that quota is not filled by early August, we'll reallocate it
to teachers and to mentors in Dublin who've booked on the form.

**31 July 2012:** Workshop full (and some). The Scratch-Space for
visitors part of the dojo is looking likely to happen. Theme for the
dojo is likely to be 'waves'.

**11 Aug 2012:** Added section on Laptops.

**20 Aug 2012:** Workshop completed. Writeup and charts
[here](http://coderdojo.com/2012/08/22/graphic-recordings-of-the-dublin-meet/)
