'''Coder Dojo in County X \!

The Non-Profit Organisation that teaches children how to code is
expanding'''

What is Coder Dojo? Irish led, this global network of computer clubs is
a place for young people to learn to code, develop websites, apps, games
and more\!

Coder Dojo has recently seen a club open in Silicon Valley in
California. Silicon Valley is home to many of the world's largest
technology corporations and is a significant mark on the expansion of
Coder Dojo as it is so rare for an Irish tech brand to be imported into
the United States.

The programme takes children out of their bedrooms and ignites their
intelligence. The club-class atmosphere encourages them to share their
knowledge, doubts and ideas, and makes them eager to attend further
sessions. Like minded children interact with each other, and this is
especially beneficial for the children who often feel left out as they
are more interested in technology than sports or music. Each session is
mentored by incredible people that are willing to give up time to help
out some young people passionate about learning how to code, learn about
tech and more.

Thanks to CoderDojo, children learn important skills that will really
benefit them in the future, especially if it is taken into account that
the software industry in Ireland is strong and many international
software companies have made Ireland a base for their offices.

And the best feature about CoderDojo is that it is absolutely free\!
 How many activities can you find for kids these days that are free?

Where have James Whelton and Bill Liao, Co-Founders of CoderDojo come
from? James Whelton, from Co. Cork, ran a computer club in his own
school and shortly after finishing his leaving Cert and teamed up with
Angel Investor and XING co-founder Bill Liao in Cork to make Coder Dojo
happen. Bill Liao founded WeForest.org (an international non-profit
organization combating global warming) and is a venture partner at SOS
Ventures, a global venture capital and investment management firm.

Call for 2 volunteers in Co. X to set up a Dojo\! CoderDojo’s mission is
to open a club in every town of Ireland. It is very simple to set up a
Dojo and the following are the main requirements:

Space with Internet - We suggest a local office building that has a big
empty space, such as a cafeteria, that is not normally used on a
weekend. (heat, light and lots of power sockets also help a lot)
Volunteers and Mentors – you need people who will come help out, teach
the sessions, help tidy up and get the space ready. A
Champion/Co-ordinator – You need someone who will just show up week in
week out to make sure that your Dojo can be relied upon to be there and
be a point of contact for that Dojo\!

If you have the desire to help and pass on your knowledge to the next
generation please visit www.coderdojo.com for more information on the
set up process. Then take the next step – express your interest and set
up your Dojo by emailing startup@coderdojo.com
