## Template Letter for Mentors from Universities and Businesses

Below is a template letter for acquiring mentors from businesses and
universities. Feel free to edit it as you see fit.

Hi (NAME),

This is \*\*\*(YOUR NAME)\*\*\* from CoderDojo \*\*\*(DOJO NAME)\*\*\*.
Iâ€™m mailing you about recruiting technical and admin volunteers and
mentors from \*\*\*(COLLEGE/BUSINESS)\*\*\*

About CoderDojo - <http://coderdojo.com/>

CoderDojo is a non-profit volunteer-led community of free programming
clubs for young people. At a Dojo, young people between 7 and 17 learn
how to code, develop websites, apps, programs, games and explore
technology using MIT Scratch, HTML, Javascript, Python and more\! There
is a focus on community, peer learning and self led learning with an
emphasis on helping others and showing how coding is a force for change
in the world\!

As you can imagine the popularity of CoderDojo has grown massively.
There are over 850 Dojos in 64 countries worldwide with over 30,000 kids
learning to code regularly at a Dojo. At the moment, the demand for
places at a CoderDojo exceeds some Dojos capacity to provide them and as
a result we are looking for mentors.

LINK: <http://youtu.be/HntLmTymmyc>

We were wondering if you could send out a CoderDojo mentor call to the
\*\*\*(COLLEGE/BUSINESS) (staff/student population), who have some
coding knowledge and would like to improve their coding ability and add
CoderDojo mentoring to their list of skills.

**Why Volunteer / Mentor?**

From Mentoring students will learn several new skills and practical
experience to add to their CV:

Communication Skills - Improved from their interaction with mentors and
young people. Networking - Giving them the opportunity to meet and
develop contacts with IT professionals. Develop Programming Skills -
When mentoring they will be challenged technically as each Dojo covers
several topics. This will improve their current skills and help them
develop new ones. Local Community and Youth Work - Mentoring will give
them experience working with young people while helping out and giving
back to their local community.

Any \*\*\*students/staff\*\*\* who would like to mentor at a CoderDojo
can find and contact their local Dojo by searching via our Dojo listing
website:

<http://zen.coderdojo.com/>

Or if you have any questions about getting involved you can contact us
directly:

  -   - 
Please note: That CoderDojo best practice encourages that all CoderDojo
volunteers and mentors undergo a garda vetting background check. This
can be done via the Dojos local volunteer centre.

Thank you for taking the time to read this. Please don't hesitate to
contact me if you have any questions or thoughts.

Kind Regards,

(DOJO NAME)
