  - [Return to Make a game](Tutorials_by_Galway.md)

This is about opposites.

  - The metagame and the microgame
  - The client and the Server
  - The begineer and the Master
  - Javascript and Php
  - Multiplayer and Single Player

From the very first steps with the "choose your own adventure" style
code to a complete immersive, massive multipler, game system that can
incorporate alements from arcade and platform games to MMORPG's and
Social/Casual Games, JiGS (the game system) and Zen and the art of
DojoGame- (the teaching style) is a lighthearted attempt to combine the
spririt of Martial Arts (and other elements of Eastern Culture such as
the Haiku) with Web Programming ,in particular Web game programming

JiGS is a web system that combines all of the games produced by the
dojokidz into one online environment, where the students can avail of an
API type structure to extend the dojos instance of JiGS. Plugins from
simple "choose your own adventure" pages to complex platform games are
created by the kids and plugged-in to the main website.

What happens in one kids chapter (a simple choose your own adventure
html page) can affect the outcome of another kids game (a martial arts
platform game) by using a php server (and in this case a customised
instance of Joomla\!) to manage the metaVerse.

For beginners on Part one of their journey we introduce their chapters
or games as

  - iframes linked by the gamesmaster in the admin section of the site.

Thees first step games are largely left right choices with no real
integration to the system, but they allow the coder to begin game
design. Using only the <href> and <img src> tags the ocder begins the
process.

For intermediateries on stages II we can introduce their games as

  - iframes
  - views in an MVC framework
  - plugins

In part II ,by converting the html files to php and introducing message
arrays, the coding element can build on the foundations of part I .

For advanced coders and mentors, there is developing a games
infrastructure using a content leader in CMS. Here we refactor the core
code and extend the api.

JiGS is built on top of joomla and uses it's structure, security system
and API to access numerous other third party extensions that complement
and enhance the game system. We can use this to create new elements to
the game customising our own instance of the game for others to enjoy.

In accomodating the Yin of attracting begginers and its Yang keeping
students interested over a two year period by looking at both the simple
plugins and the complex game engine, we create a perfectly robust, fun
and useful way to learn to code.

There are two sides to web programming, the browser and the server,
using javascript and php together on the same page, students learn both
languages in parralell, the importance or dominance of either switching
as the students moves his/her focus on the single player(graphics,
frames per second, sound) or multiplayer ( security, balance,
connections) aspects of a game.
